behold I send my messenger and he will
prepare the way before me and the Lord
whom you seek will suddenly come to his
temple even the messenger of the
Covenant in whom you delight behold he
is coming says the Lord of Hosts but who
can endure the day of his coming and who
can stand when he appears for he is like
a refiners fire and like launderers soap
he will sit as a refiner and a purifier
of silver he will purify the sons of
Levi and purge them as gold and silver
that they may offer to the Lord and
offering in righteousness then the
offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be
pleasant to the Lord as in the days of
old as in former years and I will come
near you for judgment I will be a swift
witness against sorcerers against
adulterers against perjurers against
those who exploit wage-earners and
widows and orphans and against those who
turn away an alien because they do not
fear me says the Lord of hosts for I am
the Lord I
do not change therefore you are not
consumed
o sons of jacob yet from the days of
your father's you have gone away from my
ordinances and have not kept them
returned to me and I will return to you
but you said in what way shall we return
will a man Rob God yet you have robbed
me but you say in what way have we
robbed you in tithes and offerings you
are cursed with a curse for you have
robbed me even this whole nation bring
all the tithes into the storehouse that
there may be food in my house and try me
now in this if I will not open for you
the windows of heaven and pour out for
you such blessing that there will not be
room enough to receive it and I will
rebuke the Devourer for your sakes so
that he will not destroy the fruit of
your grace
nor shall Devine fail to bear fruit for
you in the field says the Lord of Hosts
and all nations will call you blessed
for you will be a delightful land says
the Lord of Hosts your words have been
harsh against me says the Lord yet you
say what have we spoken against you you
have said it is useless to serve God
what profit is it that we have kept his
ordinance and that we have walked as
mourners before the Lord of Hosts so now
we call the proud blessed for those who
do wickedness are raised up they even
tempt God and go free then those who
feared the Lord spoke to one another and
the Lord listened and heard them so a
book of remembrance was written before
him for those who fear the Lord and who
meditate on his name they shall be mine
on the day that I make them my jewels
and I will spare them as a man spares
his own son who serves him then you
shall again discern between the
righteous and the wicked between one who
serves God and one who does not serve
Him